Epbds 16308 rule services review (#1920)
openl-tablets/openl-tablets: Docs/user-guides/rule-services/appendices/exceptions.md

## Appendix C: Types of Exceptions in OpenL Rule Services

> Each error is returned as a JSON response with `message` and `type` fields. The following table

Reviewer: **Minor** — two gaps against the real contract. `ExceptionType.BAD_REQUEST` (400, unparseable JSON payload — `JsonProcessingExceptionMapper.java:33-34`) is the only status-400 case and has no row in the table. And `error(code, message)` produces `OpenLUserRuntimeException.UserCodedMessage`, so the body also carries a `code` field — the generated OpenAPI documents `message`/`code`/`type` for 422 (`ITEST/itest.smoke/test-resources/openapi.resp`, "Example 2").

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

describes the exception types in OpenL Rule Services:

| Cause | Status code | Type | Example message |
|-------|-------------|------|-----------------|

> | `error("Some message")` in rules | 400 | `USER_ERROR` | `Some message` |

Reviewer: **Major** — `error("...")` returns 422, not 400. `RuleServiceExceptionMapper.java:35-38` maps `USER_ERROR` to `JAXRSOpenLServiceEnhancerHelper.UNPROCESSABLE_ENTITY` (422), and `ITEST/itest.WebService/test-resources/EPBDS-7757/rest_USER_ERROR.resp` asserts `HTTP/1.1 422`.

```suggestion
| `error("Some message")` in rules | 422 | `USER_ERROR` | `Some message` |
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

| Runtime execution error in OpenL rules (NPE, CCE, DivByZero) | 500 | `RULES_RUNTIME` | `Cannot convert '1ab2' to Double` |
| Compilation and parsing errors | 500 | `COMPILATION` | `Missed condition column in Rules table` |
| Other exception outside the OpenL engine (NPE, CCE, AccessException) | 500 | `SYSTEM` | `Cannot be null` |

> | Validation errors in input parameters (value outside a valid domain or wrong value in the context) | 500 | `RULES_RUNTIME` | `'Mister' is outside of valid domain ['Male', 'Female']` |

Reviewer: **Major** — a value outside a valid domain raises `OutsideOfValidDomainException`, which `RuleServiceWrapperException.java:62-64` types as `VALIDATION`, and the mapper returns 422 — not 500 / `RULES_RUNTIME`. `ITEST/itest.WebService/test-resources/EPBDS-7757/rest_RULES_RUNTIME_validation_exception.resp` asserts `HTTP/1.1 422` with `"type": "VALIDATION"`.

```suggestion
| Validation errors in input parameters (value outside a valid domain or wrong value in the context) | 422 | `VALIDATION` | `'Mister' is outside of valid domain ['Male', 'Female']` |
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_
